h1. formtastic_masked_input

Sometimes you want to mask your fields like phones, zipcodes or something like that.

This plugin will do it for you if you are using formtastic.

Note: the javascript file depends on Prototype 1.6.1 and Rails uses Prototype version 1.6.0.3, just update your prototype.js

h2. Installation

h3. Plugin

<pre>$ ruby script/plugin install git://github.com/sobrinho/formtastic_masked_input.git
$ ruby script/generate formtastic_masked_input</pre>

h3. Gem

<pre>$ gem install formtastic_masked_input<pre>

Add gem dependency to your environment.rb:

<pre>config.gem 'formtastic_masked_input'</pre>

And generate the masked_input.js:

<pre>$ ruby script/generate formtastic_masked_input</pre>

h2. Usage

Include prototype.js and masked_input.js into layout:

<pre><%= javascript_include_tag 'prototype', 'masked_input' %></pre>

And update your form field:

<pre><% semantic_form_for @person do |f| %>
  <% f.inputs do %>
    <%= f.input :name %>
    <%= f.input :phone, :as => :masked, :mask => :phone %>
  <% end %>

  <%= f.buttons %>
<% end %></pre>

h2. Masks

The available masks are made for Brazil:

* phone: (99) 9999-9999
* cpf: 999.999.999-99
* cnpj: 99.999.999/9999-99
* date: 99/99/9999
* cep: 99999-999
* time: 99:99

If you want to add a custom mask, you can edit masked_input.js around line 301 (preferred) or add directly into your layout:

<pre><%= javascript_include_tag 'prototype', 'masked_input' %>
<script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
    Object.extend(MaskedInput.masks, {
        'version': '9.9.9'
    });
//]]>
</script></pre>

h2. Credits

Special thanks to Justin French for formtastic and Bjarte K. Vebjørnsen for MaskedInput port for Prototype.

h2. TODO

* Make tests for plugin
* Make tests for MaskedInput

Copyright (c) 2010 Gabriel Sobrinho, released under the MIT license
